the economy is down and out the economy
is riant on a crutch that has been there
for well over a decade and yet here we
are today asking for more you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you what are we talking about of course
it's interest rates you see in Prior
Cycles what would happen with the
interest rates would be that when things
got too hot the Federal Reserve would
come in and start increasing interest
rates and try to control things but in
2020 everything broke okay so let's take
it back one step further financial
crisis time frame they went in and
printed more money than they have ever
done before and they kept it there for
too long by many measures they did so
for way too long and they exaggerated it
to a great degree so what we had here in
2018 was a market was an economy that
started to get really freaked out when
interest rates went up just a small
fraction of where we had been in history
2.5% on the FED funds rate that's it
that's all it took to break this down
and that is unimaginable when you take
it back you know a decade prior but
that's where we ended up now this time
around what we can see is that the
markets are saying look can you please
cut interest rates now because we really
really need that I need my fix like a
junkie in 2020 imagine this the economy
was obviously shut down lockdowns you're
not allowed to leave your house and so
what happened was they decided to do
something that's never been done before
they were printing money and buying
mortgage back securities in a time in
which the real estate market was going
berserk let's support liquidity in a
market that needs no
help let's buy corporate bonds of
companies like apple that needed no
help this was done intentionally to
create the most inflation we have ever
seen in our
lifetimes now what what goes on
today is highly reliant on the Federal
Reserve not just cutting interest rates
a little bit as the market expects but
cutting them down to zero potentially
even bringing them into the negative and
printing more money than we have ever
seen before in history here fed
officials expressed caution about
lowering rates too quickly at the last
meeting so here we are I've been talking
about this for quite a little while
saying okay we are going to get the
information of the meeting minutes this
is the one so thank you for tuning in
every single day so that you can get
this stuff now what was said here is
important essentially the Federal
Reserve needs to cut interest rates they
expressed a desire to cut interest rates
they believe that we are at a point of
restrictiveness so this is it we're here
we don't want to go overboard though
that's what they're basically saying
they want more confidence that inflation
is coming down sure all right that's
fine and so you'll see it right in here
the discussion came as policy makers not
only decided to leave their borrowing
rate unchanged that's the FED funds rate
but also altered the post meeting
statement to indicate that no Cuts would
be coming until the f F OMC had greater
confidence than inflation was receding
they will never ever ever tell you
something that they don't want to
actually affect the market at this time
they still want to be positioned that
they are getting tough they didn't go
ahead and say we are going to cut in
June we are going to cut in July they
didn't say that at
all and so that means that they want to
position themselves with what they call
forward guidance to be still in this
hawkish stance in discussing the policy
Outlook participants judge that the
policy rate was likely at its peak for
this tightening cycle so what does that
mean they will not cut interest they
will not increase interest rates again
unless something changes so unless we
get a big change where inflation starts
to surve again and it becomes structural
it's not like a temporary thing because
of you know some event or whatever that
means no more interest rate hikes and
yet we can see that what's actually
going on with inflation what's been
happening over the last few
years they are looking at their own
numbers let's be honest about that steep
rate cuts are coming as the job market
looks poised to weaken this is according
to Wells Fargo that's right now the
market itself this is in terms of
Futures in terms of swaps they believe
that there will be Cuts in 2024 and they
are definitely more accurate than uh the
Federal
Reserve and their uh I don't want to
call it predictions but
their you know propaganda I guess you
could call it um we'll see though you
can look at Goldman Sachs global
views saying cuts are coming that's
right why though uh might be a little
bit small here let me try and zoom in on
this so you can see it for yourself
Global core inflation has averaged 2%
over the past three months on a global
scale all right that's it 2% they're at
their 2%
Target who knows where it goes in the
next month and next two months and so on
but that's what they're saying using
their metrics
so what central banks have been doing
over the last little while has been to
stop their increases and some of them
have started to cut and you know the
Federal Reserve obviously being the most
important on a global scale we'll see
what happens here um in these coming
months it's you know the new inflation
data as it releases is going to be very
important one of those I've been looking
at was the
PPI producer price index and that tells
us what's going to come to the CPI
what's going to come to your grocery
store essentially and um producer prices
have elevated over the past I believe
two months now so that's a concern and
one that I am watching closely if you
stay tuned to this channel then you will
get the information you need to know
simply just hit that like button and
you're going to get it in your feed
maybe us hard Landing bets rise in rate
options market after the FED after the
FED hike so we you know can see that the
market is going to make bets make claims
on what they believe okay this is an
instrument like all these other
derivatives and they think that it's
going to to happen um they're just
talking about the $600 trillion OTC or
over-the-counter interest rate
derivatives
market and there's a lot of money at
stake here you could see this the
derivatives are
bigger than you know actual real true
wealth okay and they make these bets and
that's where we're
at and the belief here is that there's
going to be Cuts in 2024 uh the
percentage it it tends to vary depending
on what we're looking at but at least 1%
that's what I have seen as of the most
recent data 1% of interest rate cuts
that means four cuts and likely will
occur in the back half of 2024 we could
see it you
know come in one maybe you know in the
later part of the second quarter
potentially but third quarter fourth
quarter will definitely uh be where
they're at at this time look things
change right another risk for markets
emerges maybe monetary policy isn't all
that tight this is according to Bill
Dudley he's the former head of the New
York Fed so a guy in a big position okay
and just saying that large and chronic
fiscal deficits are coming are among the
factors that have pushed the neutral
interest rate
up so this is important maybe monetary
policy isn't that tight large and
chronic fiscal deficits together with
public subsidiar for green investment
subsidies for green investment have
pushed up the neutral interest rate if
so the FED should hold rates higher for
longer ah essentially they've spent so
much money
here you've got a problem we need to
keep interest rates
up the issue though is that the debt is
so high the debt
is unimaginable have you seen it a
trillion dollars in interest alone do
you realize that they pay that interest
on this fake debt that they've created
out of thin air they pay that interest
before it comes to you before it comes
to your roads before it goes out and
helps the people in need they pay that
interest it's it's it's
wild why does it even exist in the first
place it's a fraud it's a scam but of
course it helps the very select few at
the top the Puppet
Masters it's difficult to talk about
these things because we're looking at
interest rates we're looking at the mark
this is all generic stuff but when you
start to break it down and look at all
of the different factors in between what
is so obvious like why is the Federal
Reserve making this move when you
understand who controls the Federal
Reserve and who they serve well then
things start to make a lot of
sense all right if you appreciate this
information right here I would love to
see you on the finance Friday live this
is where I get into things in depth I
talk about all the details and cover the
money mirror method the money mirror
method has been absolutely accurate over
the last many years particularly since
the financial crisis and we can look at
this each and every single week like I
like two hours of this stuff and we look
at it in depth so that you are aware of
the things before they happen it's just
the way it goes I hope to see you there
Link in the description the money
gps.com
live don't forget to hit that thumbs up
button on the way out and I'll see you
tomorrow take care